---
layout: my-page
title: Ramblings
---

This is a page where I share my own ramblings about experiences during the course of my Physics/Astrophysics education. If an undergraduate or a starting graduate student is reading this, I hope they either find it useful or find it to be amusing. 

During my undergraduate studies, I was struggling to get a holistic picture and severely lacked insights into the various interesting topics that were being taught. Getting fed up with this feeling and questioning my capability as a wannabe physicist, I remember coming across this webpage by Prof. Gerard 't Hooft: [*How to become a GOOD Theoretical Physicist*](https://www.goodtheorist.science/index.html). I remember diligently trying to set out and follow one link after the other on the webpage in order to master the program that Prof. Hooft had laid out with the aim to becoming maybe HALF as GOOD a physicist. After a few weeks (starting to fall behind with my own university course assignments) and finding most of the material suggested on the webpage sometimes hard to digest, I gave up. Mind you, I aced my exams at my Univsersity though (I was not a bad student..). I had learned all the *algorithms* that were there to be learned --> Hamilton-Jacobi equation, grand canonical ensembles, Schrödinger picture, Rodrigues formula, Bloch waves and what not. Cometh the exam, cometh my algorithm using capability. However, I knew that if I would look at the mirror I'll get found out: my basics in some topics were in absolute shambles. Whether it was the fault of the education system in being unable to teach students like me properly or was it just my inability to gain concrete insights into concepts exacerbated by my prioritising solving homework assignments week in week out for obtaining bonus points for exams, I don't know. It wasn't all bad though. Going through this grind did help me in many other ways which I have been thankful for --> it taught me to strive to get to the end of a problem (whether it be a homework problem or later on a research problem). Looking back upon my undergraduate years my takeaway was that I learned to become a hard worker with a wee bit of applied mathematical skills but with almost not much solid physics insight (in all honestly I won't be able to tell you at all what the grand canonical ensemble is without looking it up). 

The lack of physics insight was always a huge gap in my education. It made me (and still does make me) feel very uncomfortable. In my free time, I tried many different books and resources from Prof. Hooft's program, started reading but found them to be unnecessarily complicated and didn't serve the purpose I wanted the books to satisfy: to give me a solid understanding of the fundamentals. Several of the resources wanted to do a lot all at once with hundreds of advanced applications (e.g. J.D. Jackson, with all due respect). And on the opposite end from the library shelf were books so dumbed down, with analogies far removed from real applications, that they didn't help either! The amount of text in those books made me sleepy.

This is when I made a choice. I was going to search for books/resources which made sense to me and I started developing my own *How to try to become a good (astro-)physicist* program. This has been and still is work in progress, but I am already very happy to share below some resources which I strongly believe are probably the most physics student-friendly resources that are out there currently (neither complicated nor dumbed down). These have helped me a lot to at least start filling in some of the glaring gaps in my physics education.

More coming soon...
